usage.md, before:

# Usage Guide

Alto Clef has a variety of commands, settings and modes. This will give users an overview on how to use the bot.

Keep in mind this project is still in rapid development. A lot of features are placeholders and a work in progress.

## Commands

Commands are prefixed with `@`. Here's a list along with their functions:

| command | description | examples |
| --------| ------------|---|
| `help` | Lists all commands | |
| `coords` | Prints the bot's current coordinates. This is here in cases where the `F3` menu gets too crowded.|
| `equip {material}` or `equip [items...]` | Equips a `material` armor set or `[items...]`. If not in the bot's inventory, bot will obtain it. | `@equip [diamond_chestplate, gold_leggings]` `@equip netherite`|
| `follow {player = <you>}` | Follow a player. If sent via `/msg`, will follow the player who sent the command. | `@follow TacoTechnica` `/msg Bot follow` |
| `food {amount}` | Collects `amount` units of food (1 unit = 1/2 drumstick). Collects from various sources (animals, crops) | `@food 20` |
| `gamer` | Beats the game epic style | `@gamer` |
| `get [items...]` | Gets all items in `[items...]`. Can either do one item or pass a comma-separated list to get multiple items. Not every resource is get-able. | `@get diamond 3` `@get [cobblestone 40, wooden_door, glass 4]` |
| `list` | Prints a list of all get-able items | |
| `give {player = <you>} {item} {quantity=1}` | Gives `player` `quantity` units of `item`, getting said items if the bot doesn't have them. If sent via `/msg`, will follow the player who sent the command. | `/msg Bot give iron_pickaxe` |
| `deposit [items... = <Everything>]` | Deposit a list of items in the nearest container, making a chest if we can't find one. Will only deposit items present in the bot's inventory (at the time of running this command). Leave out the list to deposit every non-tool/armor item in the bot's inventory. Useful with command chaining. | `@deposit diamond 3` `@deposit [cobblestone 1000, raw_iron 100]` `@deposit` |
| `stash {x0} {y0} {z0} {x1} {y0} {z1} [items... = <Everything>]` | Same as `@deposit`, but you specify an area from `(x0, y0, z0)` to `(x1, y1, z1)` where the bot stores the item list (these coordinates being a chest stash). Just like `@deposit`, providing no items simply deposits everything in the bots inventory. | `@stash 100 64 100 200 70 100 diamond 3` |
| `goto {x} {y} {z} {dimension=<current>}` | Goes to (`x`,`y`, `z`) in a given `dimension`. Travels to `dimension` if not there already. Can also omit coordinates to just go to a dimension. Passing 2 values as coordinates goes to X Z coordinates instead. | `@goto 100 64 100 overworld` `@goto nether` `@goto 100 100` |
| `inventory {item=<Entire Inventory>}` | Prints the bots inventory, OR how many items of a specific type the bot has. Mostly useful when running through `/msg`. | `/msg Bot inventory` `/msg Bot inventory cobblestone` |
| `locate_structure {structure_type}` | Attempts to locate a `structure_type` structure. Can find strongholds or desert temples. | `@locate_structure stronghold`, `@locate_structure desert_temple` |
| `punk {player}` | Attacks `player`. | |
| `reload_settings` | Reloads the local settings file. Run this every time you want your settings to be updated. | |
| `gamma {brightness=1}` | Sets the game's gamma. Useful for testing. 0 is "Moody" and 1 is "Bright", and you can go beyond to enable fullbright. | `@gamma 1000` |
| `status` | Prints the status of the currently executing command. Mostly useful when running through `/msg`. | |
| `stop` | Forcefully stops the currently running command. The shortcut `CTRL+K` also achieves this. | |
| `test {testname}` | Runs a "test" command. These vary, and will be described below. | |

### Command chaining

Execute consecutve commands by separating them with `;`

`@get iron_axe;get log 100;goto 0 0;give Player log 100`

will get an iron axe, then get 100 logs, then go to `x=0 z=0` and then give 100 logs to a player with the name `Player`

### Notable test commands

Test commands are temporary/only exist as an experiment, but some of these might be interesting.
For example, `@test terminate` runs the terminator.
Here's a list of some highlights.

| test name | what it does |
| ------- | ------------ |
| `terminate` | Runs the terminator task. When without diamond gear, the bot flees players and obtains diamond gear + food. When diamond gear is equipped, the bot hunts any nearby players down and searches for any chunks that were last seen to have players in them. |
| `deadmeme` | Expects a file to exist in your `.minecraft` directory called `test.txt`. Reads from this file, then displays the text contents of the file by placing signs in a line. Dubbed the "Bee Movie Task" for stupid reasons. Will automatically collect signs and building materials if the bot runs out. |
| `173` | Attacks any player that doesn't have direct line of sight to the bot and stands still otherwise. Like a weeping angel. | 
| `replace` | Replace grass block within around 100 blocks with crafting tables. Frequently fails when replacing grass blocks next to water. |
| `piglin` | Collects 12 ender pearls via piglin bartering. |
| `stacked` | Collects diamond armor, a sword and a crafting table. |
| `netherite` | Same as `stacked` but for netherite gear.
| `sign` | Place a sign nearby that says "Hello there!" |
| `bed` | Right clicks a nearby bed to set the bot's spawnpoint, placing one if it does not exist. |

## Bot Settings/Configuration

After running the game with the mod once, a folder called `altoclef` should appear in your `.minecraft` directory. This
contains `altoclef` related settings and configurations.

With regards to the `altoclef_settings.json` file
Check [Settings.java](https://github.com/gaucho-matrero/altoclef/blob/main/src/main/java/adris/altoclef/Settings.java)

After modifying your local settings, run `@reload_settings` to apply your changes in-game.

## /msg: The Butler System

This bot lets other players run commands on the bot via server messages. When sending a command via `/msg` you may omit
the `@`.

You'll have to append each player's name to a file called `altoclef_butler_whitelist.txt`
located in your `.minecraft/altoclef` directory. Make sure your name is not found in `altoclef_butler_blacklist.txt`
too.

### Disabling/Enabling Blacklist/Whitelist

To toggle whitelist/blacklist, check the `useButlerBlacklist` and `useButlerWhitelist` settings.

**WARNING:** If you set `useButlerWhitelist` to false, ALL PLAYERS will be able to send commands to the bot. Be extra
careful with this one.

### Expect delayed messages

Servers auto-kick players that rapidly send messages. For this reason, the butler will send messages at a delayed rate.
When sending messages, messages to authorized
users are prioritized and sent first.

### Dealing with custom /msg outputs on servers

If the server's whisper /msg system doesn't send players a message that looks like `X whispers to you: Y` and it's not
being
picked up by altoclef, you can append the server's custom whisper format in the `whisperFormats` setting.

**NOTE:** At least for now, you must escape brackets and paranthesis. Example: To receive messages that look
like `[Player -> me] message` the format string is `\[{from} -> {to}\] {message}`

**WARNING:** Be careful with this one as well, as the bot will trust these formats for ALL non-player chat messages.
Messing up the format's ordering can let unauthorized people execute bot commands.

Commit message:

feat: elytra fly + repair tools
Port from badpiggies

usage.md, after:

# Usage Guide

Alto Clef has a variety of commands, settings and modes. This will give users an overview on how to use the bot.

Keep in mind this project is still in rapid development. A lot of features are placeholders and a work in progress.

## Commands

Commands are prefixed with `@`. Here's a list along with their functions:

| command | description | examples |
| --------| ------------|---|
| `help` | Lists all commands | |
| `coords` | Prints the bot's current coordinates. This is here in cases where the `F3` menu gets too crowded.|
| `equip {material}` or `equip [items...]` | Equips a `material` armor set or `[items...]`. If not in the bot's inventory, bot will obtain it. | `@equip [diamond_chestplate, gold_leggings]` `@equip netherite`|
| `follow {player = <you>}` | Follow a player. If sent via `/msg`, will follow the player who sent the command. | `@follow TacoTechnica` `/msg Bot follow` |
| `food {amount}` | Collects `amount` units of food (1 unit = 1/2 drumstick). Collects from various sources (animals, crops) | `@food 20` |
| `gamer` | Beats the game epic style | `@gamer` |
| `get [items...]` | Gets all items in `[items...]`. Can either do one item or pass a comma-separated list to get multiple items. Not every resource is get-able. | `@get diamond 3` `@get [cobblestone 40, wooden_door, glass 4]` |
| `list` | Prints a list of all get-able items | |
| `give {player = <you>} {item} {quantity=1}` | Gives `player` `quantity` units of `item`, getting said items if the bot doesn't have them. If sent via `/msg`, will follow the player who sent the command. | `/msg Bot give iron_pickaxe` |
| `deposit [items... = <Everything>]` | Deposit a list of items in the nearest container, making a chest if we can't find one. Will only deposit items present in the bot's inventory (at the time of running this command). Leave out the list to deposit every non-tool/armor item in the bot's inventory. Useful with command chaining. | `@deposit diamond 3` `@deposit [cobblestone 1000, raw_iron 100]` `@deposit` |
| `stash {x0} {y0} {z0} {x1} {y0} {z1} [items... = <Everything>]` | Same as `@deposit`, but you specify an area from `(x0, y0, z0)` to `(x1, y1, z1)` where the bot stores the item list (these coordinates being a chest stash). Just like `@deposit`, providing no items simply deposits everything in the bots inventory. | `@stash 100 64 100 200 70 100 diamond 3` |
| `goto {x} {y} {z} {dimension=<current>}` | Goes to (`x`,`y`, `z`) in a given `dimension`. Travels to `dimension` if not there already. Can also omit coordinates to just go to a dimension. Passing 2 values as coordinates goes to X Z coordinates instead. | `@goto 100 64 100 overworld` `@goto nether` `@goto 100 100` |
| `elytra [x] [z]` | Goes to (`[x]`, `[z]`) using an elytra, it will do the same thing as `goto [x] [z]` if we don't have one| `@elytra 1000 500` |
| `inventory {item=<Entire Inventory>}` | Prints the bots inventory, OR how many items of a specific type the bot has. Mostly useful when running through `/msg`. | `/msg Bot inventory` `/msg Bot inventory cobblestone` |
| `locate_structure {structure_type}` | Attempts to locate a `structure_type` structure. Can find strongholds or desert temples. | `@locate_structure stronghold`, `@locate_structure desert_temple` |
| `punk {player}` | Attacks `player`. | |
| `reload_settings` | Reloads the local settings file. Run this every time you want your settings to be updated. | |
| `gamma {brightness=1}` | Sets the game's gamma. Useful for testing. 0 is "Moody" and 1 is "Bright", and you can go beyond to enable fullbright. | `@gamma 1000` |
| `status` | Prints the status of the currently executing command. Mostly useful when running through `/msg`. | |
| `stop` | Forcefully stops the currently running command. The shortcut `CTRL+K` also achieves this. | |
| `test {testname}` | Runs a "test" command. These vary, and will be described below. | |

### Command chaining

Execute consecutve commands by separating them with `;`

`@get iron_axe;get log 100;goto 0 0;give Player log 100`

will get an iron axe, then get 100 logs, then go to `x=0 z=0` and then give 100 logs to a player with the name `Player`

### Notable test commands

Test commands are temporary/only exist as an experiment, but some of these might be interesting.
For example, `@test terminate` runs the terminator.
Here's a list of some highlights.

| test name | what it does |
| ------- | ------------ |
| `terminate` | Runs the terminator task. When without diamond gear, the bot flees players and obtains diamond gear + food. When diamond gear is equipped, the bot hunts any nearby players down and searches for any chunks that were last seen to have players in them. |
| `deadmeme` | Expects a file to exist in your `.minecraft` directory called `test.txt`. Reads from this file, then displays the text contents of the file by placing signs in a line. Dubbed the "Bee Movie Task" for stupid reasons. Will automatically collect signs and building materials if the bot runs out. |
| `173` | Attacks any player that doesn't have direct line of sight to the bot and stands still otherwise. Like a weeping angel. | 
| `replace` | Replace grass block within around 100 blocks with crafting tables. Frequently fails when replacing grass blocks next to water. |
| `piglin` | Collects 12 ender pearls via piglin bartering. |
| `stacked` | Collects diamond armor, a sword and a crafting table. |
| `netherite` | Same as `stacked` but for netherite gear.
| `sign` | Place a sign nearby that says "Hello there!" |
| `bed` | Right clicks a nearby bed to set the bot's spawnpoint, placing one if it does not exist. |

## Bot Settings/Configuration

After running the game with the mod once, a folder called `altoclef` should appear in your `.minecraft` directory. This
contains `altoclef` related settings and configurations.

With regards to the `altoclef_settings.json` file
Check [Settings.java](https://github.com/gaucho-matrero/altoclef/blob/main/src/main/java/adris/altoclef/Settings.java)

After modifying your local settings, run `@reload_settings` to apply your changes in-game.

## /msg: The Butler System

This bot lets other players run commands on the bot via server messages. When sending a command via `/msg` you may omit
the `@`.

You'll have to append each player's name to a file called `altoclef_butler_whitelist.txt`
located in your `.minecraft/altoclef` directory. Make sure your name is not found in `altoclef_butler_blacklist.txt`
too.

### Disabling/Enabling Blacklist/Whitelist

To toggle whitelist/blacklist, check the `useButlerBlacklist` and `useButlerWhitelist` settings.

**WARNING:** If you set `useButlerWhitelist` to false, ALL PLAYERS will be able to send commands to the bot. Be extra
careful with this one.

### Expect delayed messages

Servers auto-kick players that rapidly send messages. For this reason, the butler will send messages at a delayed rate.
When sending messages, messages to authorized
users are prioritized and sent first.

### Dealing with custom /msg outputs on servers

If the server's whisper /msg system doesn't send players a message that looks like `X whispers to you: Y` and it's not
being
picked up by altoclef, you can append the server's custom whisper format in the `whisperFormats` setting.

**NOTE:** At least for now, you must escape brackets and paranthesis. Example: To receive messages that look
like `[Player -> me] message` the format string is `\[{from} -> {to}\] {message}`

**WARNING:** Be careful with this one as well, as the bot will trust these formats for ALL non-player chat messages.
Messing up the format's ordering can let unauthorized people execute bot commands.
